So good to see you.
Welcome to Venice,
California. Thank you. Great
to see you.
I mean, you brought the sunshine,
I think you brought the sunshine.
It's nice. It's so beautiful.
Beautiful day out here.
I'm in sunny LA surrounded
by sand surf and skateboarders.
It may be far from the mega
campuses of Silicon Valley,
but it's where Evan
Spiegel, the co-founder
and CEO of Snap feels most at home.
10 million people walk the
boardwalk every single year.
And I think for us, that was so special
because all these people
from all over the world were
walking by our office every single day.
We had a big ghost logo out front.
Yep. You may know Snap, as
the popular messaging app made
for sending disappearing
photos and videos.
Some people can't handle success.
I can
That had a meteoric rise
with Spiegel at its helm.
Snapchat always starts with a snap
These days,
he's grown up, still in founder mode
and trying to stay competitive
in the ever-changing world
of social media. To do that,
Spiegel's doubling down
on consumer hardware
and going head to head with
giants like Google, Meta
and Apple in the race
to bring augmented reality to the masses.
I think for us it's, it's
really about this transition
from a screen-based way of
interacting with computers,
to interacting with
computers in the real world
through augmented reality.
That this is gonna be one of the biggest
and most profound shifts in, in computing.
These are trillion
dollar companies though.
And Snap is a multi-billion
dollar company.
A baby, a baby company.
A baby company. So he's on a quest
and having some fun along the way.
I don't know where these
arrows are going, but,
Oh,
Oh, there we go.
So we're looking at the future,
literally right now. Is
that what we're doing?
Feels like it.
You grew up in Southern California.
What kind of kid were you?
Were you one of the cool kids
or were you one of the
nerds trying to be cool?
You know, I think my
wife always says it's cool
to be uncool, so I
definitely was not, not one
of the cool kids.
You know, I, I grew up in,
my parents didn't let me
watch TV at all.
Oh, really?
So I was very into reading.
It's okay to be a nerd.
I was totally a nerd.
I think we turned out okay.
I saw that you were really
interested in graphic
design early on.
How did that sort of shape your approach?
I think for me it was that
intersection of being able
to express myself through art,
but to do it with the computer
and to use these really,
really powerful tools
that made me feel like, you know,
anything was, was possible.
And then later on that sort of prompted me
to build my own computer
and to pursue ultimately
product design in, in college.
What was it that made you
say, I need to drop out?
Like I need to do this?
I I was standing in the
back of this machining class
and I, at that time, we, we
were signed the documents.
We were waiting for our
venture investors Lightspeed
to fund, and I was refreshing
the Wells Fargo app in the
back of the class, saw the
$485,000 hit, walked up
to my teacher Craig,
and just said, you know
what, I'm so sorry,
I'm gonna have to drop this class.
But I went back
and finished that class
with Craig many years later
When Snapchat debuted in 2011,
social media looked a little different.
MySpace was on its way out.
Facebook and Twitter were huge,
and Instagram had just launched.
The startup economy was booming.
At the time,
it would take like a minute to send a
photo, which was just crazy.
So we invented a way to send
photos really, really quickly.
People were starting to use it to talk.
So we renamed it Snapchat,
we added captions and drawing
and all the fun creative tools people use.
Within a few years, Snapchat
was rising in popularity.
That is rainbow vomit
Stirring up its share of controversy
and catching the attention
of Silicon Valley.
I remember the first time
I saw Snapchat in the wild.
We were at an ice cream parlor
and there was this crowd
of kids in front of us
and they all had their phones up.
And I was like, oh, they're taking
pictures of the ice cream.
And my husband whispered,
there's Snapchatting.
And I was like, oh, this is,
this is becoming a thing.
Like it was really a
moment. Teens everywhere
believe they're sending
their own self-destructing
messages online with an app called
Snapchat.
Was there a sort of an inflection point
where you felt like
things really took off?
Snapchat changed people's
relationship with photos
and made them about communicating.
And it turns out people communicate way
more than they say things.
And so there was a moment
in time when, you know,
we realized that the number
of photos people were taking
and sending on Snapchat at, you know,
eclipsed the total number
of normal photos people were
taking on the world, you know,
out in the world with their,
with their smartphones.
And I think that was really the moment
that we realized there
had been this huge shift
that like the majority use case
or the primary use case for
cameras was communicating,
not saving things.
The rise of Snapchat
also made Spiegel one
of the youngest billionaires
in the world by age 25.
How did you manage having so
much responsibility and money
and fame at such a young age?
What a great question.
I, you know, I, I felt really fortunate
that I live in a place where my family is.
So my family, my high school
buddies, my, like, all my,
you know, friends from, from school
and from growing up are, are
here in la My parents live,
fortunately they're still
alive and live 10 minutes away.
So I've got a really
strong support network.
What was your first I made it purchase.
Oh my gosh, this is
gonna be so embarrassing.
I was still living at my dad's house.
My first purchase was a pre-owned Ferrari.
I went to the Ferrari
dealership and walked in.
They looked, they must have looked at
me like, what are you doing?
I was like, oh, can I buy a
car? And they were like, what?
Yeah.
So I came the next day,
gave 'em the cashier's
check and I drove home
and my dad was very upset
because I, you know,
he's like, where are you
gonna park this thing?
I mean, not in front of my house.
Instead of settling in the Bay Area,
like most tech startups,
Snapchat's first official office
that wasn't in Spiegel's
dad's house was in this
small but iconic spot.
Welcome to the Blue house.
And just imagine there's a big ghost
right out front right there. So,
So tourists would come by,
snap photos with the ghost and,
And come up and, and knock
on the door to get help
with their account too, and
give feedback, which is,
is always appreciated.
So why a ghost?
Well, in the beginning
the app was called Peekaboo,
so it was boo like a ghost.
And I drew the little
ghost in my dorm room.
You drew it?
Yeah. Back in the day it was holding a
Polaroid too, which is pretty cute.
But we simplified it,
got rid of the Polaroid
and now it's just the Snapchat ghost.
You loved Venice, but
Venice didn't always love you.
I mean, there was quite a bit of backlash.
They go to the IPO, they go to the IPO,
there are people holding signs.
Venice is a community,
not a corporate campus.
How did you handle that?
It's definitely a lively environment,
but we, we never anticipated
that we would grow so quickly.
And I think that did put some
pressure on the community
and ultimately it's part
of the reason why we,
we ended up moving to our, our campus in,
in Santa Monica is the company sort
of reached a different phase of growth.
But those early days will
always, you know, be a special,
have a special place in my heart.
As luck would have it, the current
occupants of the Blue House
we're happy to let us in for
a tour to relive the memories.
Congrats on getting going. Thanks.
Yeah, hopefully we can have some
similar success to you guys.
I, I have no doubt this
house is very lucky, I think.
Hi, thanks for letting us crash your
peaceful Venice morning.
This is actually where
we all sat when we decided
to stay in Los Angeles.
'cause that was a big debate at the time.
You know, our investors
were saying maybe move
to the Bay Area and this kind of thing.
We all sat here and kind of
heard everyone's perspective
and everyone wanted to stay.
I shared a desk here with one
of our team members, Micah,
we were playing footsie under
the table sometimes.
Oh my goodness. Look
at that.
I mean, that's a pretty magical spot. Not
bad for a first office,
Not bad for a first office.
Snap went public in 2017 and
left its startup days behind.
But no matter how much
the company has changed,
Spiegel has stayed
committed to his vision.
It's easy to forget because
it's been so long now,
but Snap popularized so many things
that are just like a fact
of social media today.
Disappearing messages, stories, filters
and lenses, even vertical
video location tags.
What was it about you and Snap's
culture that enabled that?
Well, I, I think one of the
things that was really unique
is that we were mobile first.
So we were one of the first services
to start building mobile only A lot
of our competitors actually
had started on the desktop
and were migrating to mobile.
But we had grown up with smartphones
and even things as simple as, you know,
back in the day when you would
open your camera, you had
to choose between photo or video.
So we invented this
button where you would tap
to take a photo or press
and hold for video.
It was the same of course for
stories for vertical video.
It was so obvious to us.
I mean, all the video at the
time was cut horizontally.
So it was all about
making things more human.
Yeah. And, and easier to use,
designed around the, the way
that people live instead of forcing people
to change the way they
live to use technology.
Snap has always made big waves
for its size in Silicon
Valley, inspiring copycats
and sparking some rivalries along the way.
Your LinkedIn says you're
the VP of product at Meta.
How do you really feel?
Well, I wish that was my joke
'cause I get so much positive
feedback on on that one.
You know, one of the fun parts
of being a designer is
building stuff that lots
of people use, but it's also meant
that from the very early days as we saw
how the competitive
landscape would play out,
that we invested in technology
that was highly differentiated.
That was very, very difficult to copy.
And that has platform characteristics.
This is legend, but I
wanna hear it from you.
Mark Zuckerberg famously
offered $3 billion
to buy you back in the day.
Tell me about the
journey of emotions there
and what gave you the courage to say no?
Well, I can say now
publicly, it was a hell
of a lot more than that,
which is pretty wild.
So I think for us there were
A, it was more than
three. You're saying six?
A lot more than three
I Ish. Yeah, I think.
Okay - I think for us,
there were a couple things.
The first one was that we
saw a much bigger opportunity
for, for Snapchat.
A lot of that was informed by, you know,
having the experience
of watching Instagram,
which sold very, very
early in their life as a,
a company ultimately has
become a huge driver of growth
for Meta, an incredible business.
And I think watching that
and learning from that sort of story
and that feeling we had that wow, they,
they had sold way too early.
Definitely informed some of our thinking.
But more importantly, we saw
so much potential for Snapchat.
So we thought, you know, that
we could build a really big
business on our own.
Where do you get your conviction?
I grew up with two parents
who were both lawyers.
My mother was a tax lawyer, my
dad does business litigation.
So our dining table conversations were
energetic to say the least.
That's the primary format
actually, of our design meetings.
We spend, you know, three or
four hours a week just looking
at work and debating it
and really, you know, developing
that confidence in the philosophy,
in the underlying perspective
or or point of view.
Snap, like many social
media companies, makes most
of its money through
ads, making it vulnerable
to the Internet's ever-changing whims,
a single tweet from Kylie
Jenner once wiped a billion
dollars off its market cap.
And when it comes to users,
competition is fierce.
Just how big a threat is
TikTok, I mean, they seem
to be setting the trends
that you set in the early days.
They have some real advantages
that make them a tough competitor.
One of course is that they're allowed
to operate in China and we're not.
They have a very, very large
and profitable business
in China that they can use
to fund their growth outside of China.
And so especially as, you know,
they've been competing
with us in the early days.
It's not like competing
with a normal startup,
it's like competing with
a, a giant conglomerate
because they have so many
different services that's able
to spend tens of billions
of dollars to grow.
And so it's been an unbelievably
formative journey for Snap
to try to figure out,
you know, how to compete
with them in addition to
the really big players here,
Snap is currently sitting
below its IPO price, earnings
can be notoriously brutal,
but I think the massive problem
for Snap is actually no one
really knows what it is.
Do you think Snap's best
days could be behind it?
It really was a dismal quarter for
Snap.
How do you manage the pressure
of running a public company?
Does that get to you?
I think what's so important
is that we just continue to,
to stay focused on our vision
and that we clearly
communicate that to our team.
I had such an inspiring
conversation with Jensen
because they were trying
to grow this GPU business.
People didn't think
they could win in GPUs.
And you know, he, he
mentioned to me, you know,
it just felt like I never
had a clean quarter. So
What was Jenssen's advice?
Just knuckle down. It. It's funny too
because at the time he
had young kids, you know,
and he was joking around.
He is like, so I bring my
kids to work in a basket,
you know, and you know,
we'd be at the office
seven days a week to,
to try to win that future.
And I think ultimately to invest
so consistently over a long
timeframe at this scale is
such an advantage.
But, you know, sometimes it
means we don't have a clean quarter.
Spiegel's focus on winning
the future involves a
multi-billion dollar bet on smart glasses.
Something he's been committed
to for over a decade,
even though there's no proven market
yet. What do we got here?
This is Specs memory lane.
This was my first pair
of specs. I love the color.
I was like, yes, I felt very hip.
The goal was really to just
see if we could inspire people
to wear a camera on their
face, which at the time was,
I'd say pretty taboo.
We tried to make it really playful.
One of our, one of our constant
inspirations is the Eames
quote that says, you know, toys
are, are really the prelude
to serious ideas.
And so oftentimes when we're
thinking about technology,
we want to create
something that's inviting,
that people wanna play with.
Even if the underlying technology
or the vision for the technology is,
is much more serious or, or ambitious.
This, this was generation one
and instance, sort of like
the tennis ball can design.
That popped out of the
vending machine. Vending
machine.
But at that point in time,
we were all recovering from the
Google glass glass hole
scandal where it was really,
people felt it was invasive
or inappropriate to wear cameras.
Google released its first smart glasses
to the public back in 2014.
What better way to start off
the next big thing summit than
with Google Glass.
And the feedback wasn't always good.
Strange.
Glass ended up
being kind of a flop,
but that didn't deter Spiegel.
The next big step that we took
was specs was this one.
Okay. This was a big step.
This was a big, Oh awesome.
This was a really big step for us
because instead of just having one camera,
We had two cameras and with two cameras.
Oh, right, there's two. Okay.
With two cameras, you get depth and
therefore you get an
understanding of the world
and the environment that you're in.
And you get 3D content, the ability
to overlay ar effects on that content.
And this was really the foundation
of beginning the
augmented reality journey.
All right, let's go try some
stuff to test out the vision.
We headed to a nearby park
for some games on Snap's. Latest prototype
Game on,
Game on. Watch out.
Archer Champ.
Archer Champ
Right there.
Oh, oh, oh, that wasn't, wasn't bad.
I don't know where these arrows are going,
but I hit one of them. Hit
Oh
Oh, there we go.
All right, you crushed
me. Okay, so walk me
through the design. The features
Specs have a dual SOC design,
meaning there are two processors on board,
one on this side and one on this side.
And they talk to each other
through a custom architecture we built.
So that one, SOC is responsible
for the computer vision,
understanding the world around you,
and the other one is really responsible
for the application layer
or all those lenses that
you're experiencing.
Do you see one called Sitecraft?
Sitecraft? Yeah. It's
not showing me the menu.
You see a little
Button on your hands. It says avoid
plane, improve lighting, make details
visible.
Ah, okay. Okay. So this is kind of fun.
Let's make our own little walking track.
Basically, if as soon as you go
through the starting line,
you're gonna have your,
So I'm trying
The race is on.
Okay, so then follow. You
can follow your little,
yeah, yeah.
Do I look graceful?
Okay. This was so fun.
I'm still skeptical
that people are gonna put
a camera on their faces
and it turns out I'm not the only one.
Would you wear a pair of
smart glasses? No, no, no.
No camera on your face? That's
disgusting. Yeah, no, no. Okay.
I really don't like glasses in general.
Our privacy is invaded
There's the privacy risk amped
up with AI providing new ways
to collect and exploit personal data.
I know behaviors have changed a lot,
but it still can be like a
little unnerving when someone
turns to face you and they've
got a camera right on you.
I think you're right to feel
that about camera glasses
when the primary use case
of glasses is a camera.
I don't think there's enough utility
or a benefit for there
to be real social acceptance across
the world at a broad scale.
Yeah, I think the turning
point's gonna come when you say,
Hey, are you taking a picture?
And, and they say, no,
I'm watching a movie. And
you're gonna be like, what
Do glasses make our lives
more social or more antisocial?
I think they're gonna create points
of connection in the real
world, which is fundamentally
what we as, as humans, really need.
Literally, you know, two
months ago, I, I looked
through our front door and
two of our boys are running
around outside with the glasses on
playing together and laughing.
And they're using a computer,
but they're using it in a totally new way.
And so I do think if
we redesign computers,
if we rethink computing, we
can bring people together.
Despite my skepticism, the
smart glasses market is growing
with Meta, Apple, Amazon,
and Google all announcing
buzzy brand partnerships
and investing a lot of capital.
How do you compete? These
are massive companies
In our view,
the technology stacks are
actually quite different.
What we've always found
is just a singular focus
and execution against that
over a very long period
of time helps to compound a
technological advantage that I,
I think positions us well competitively.
How does AI change AR
I I think fundamentally
AR is the interface for ai.
So a lot of people right now
are spending time investing in
building these really big models.
There's a lot of competition around that.
You can almost think about that
as the backend of ai, right?
But where we're spending a lot of our time
and where we're very interested is
what is the front end of AI?
How are people actually going to interact
with and engage with ai?
And the reason why we think AR
is such a powerful interface
is because it brings AI
into the world with you.
So it can understand your
environment, understand who you're
with, obviously make the right, you know,
recommendations in terms
of your experience,
but be very, very helpful
in the moment as well.
=AI isn't just shaping the
future of augmented reality,
it's also changing social
media, including Snapchat,
which introduced its own chatbot
in 2023 to mixed reviews.
Snapchat is still hugely
popular among teens
and young adults who
will be at the forefront
of the benefits and
risks of new technology.
Spiegel will have to navigate how
to keep innovating while
protecting the mental health
and safety of his users.
Maybe I'm just a geriatric millennial,
but some of the things,
you know, Snap streaks,
Snap credits, Snap maps, some
of those things actually
seem like they might
not be good for kids.
And, you know, make you feel
left out if you're not on the
map with your friends
or make you feel like
you have to keep snapping
to keep that streak going.
How do you think about those things?
We've thought a lot over the
years about how to, you know,
do things like reduce
the pressure of streaks.
So we've learned from our community
and very, very small number
of people feel pressure
around streaks for those people.
We've just made it very
easy to restore the streak.
If you lose it, you can restore it.
Snap's design choices
and role as a self-professed
messaging app have put Spiegel
along with other companies
in the hot seat over how
to keep people safe online.
No legislation is perfect,
but some rules of the
road are better than none.
It's a topic that's gaining
momentum at a global level.
Australia recently
became the first country
to ban social media for teens under 16,
and that includes Snapchat.
Would you say that safety
and enforcement are treated
with the same urgency
inside the company as
design and engineering
and growth and product?
And what would prove that
to an outside viewer?
I would say at, at many
points in time it's had more
urgency because unless people
can feel safe using our
products, they're, they're
not gonna feel comfortable
expressing themselves or
communicating with their friends.
But I think, you know, whether
it's some recent senate
hearings or you know,
some of the, the cases
and the, the legal discovery
that's ongoing to understand
what has snap done right
and wrong to, to respond
to these crises over time,
the public will build a lot
of confidence in our response.
Kids are using Snap
and other apps to send nude photos
of themselves to other kids.
AI is like gasoline on the
fire. Where does this go?
Well, I think it's really important for
people to understand that's a crime.
And I think, you know, there's been some,
some really powerful
legislation passed recently,
the Take It Down act,
which helps protect people
from being re-victimized
by that sort of content.
There are tools available
that if you are being
victimized in that way,
if you have had private
images that have been exposed,
there are tools you can use
online to create a hash of
that image, upload it
and take it down from all
the various platforms,
Snap included, who have
integrated with that service.
Do you think these things
get better? Like do kids learn?
You know, I I think like to maybe the,
the more optimistic view here
would be younger generations
are not engaging in risk
taking behaviors at the rate
that their older generations were.
In fact, overall, if you look at drug use,
if you look at sexual behavior
and at, you know, for teenagers
and these sorts of things,
they've dramatically,
and I think, you know, there
there's reason to be optimistic
that education, people's
awareness of the risks of
of these sorts of behaviors
have, have, you know,
changed the way they act out in the world.
Is that a good thing? 'cause
aren't they just spending
more time on screens than
taking risks outside?
My general view is that,
that people are, you know,
spending, spending time on screens that
that could be spent in maybe different or,
or more productive ways.
That's certainly one of the
reasons why we've invested
so heavily in specs
because we believe, you know,
instead of a, a classroom
where everyone's sitting behind a laptop,
what if you could all get
together, look at the same thing,
do simulated chemical
reactions in your chemistry lab
without making a mess?
I think all of a sudden you have education
that's interactive, that's
shared in, in the real world
that's a lot more fun and
doesn't involve just sitting
behind, you know, hunched over a screen.
Spiegel has big
responsibilities to manage
and a new technology curve to ride.
It's all part of his grand
plan to build a better future
that keeps us out of
dark digital rabbit holes
and keeps our feet in the real world.
Even if that means strapping
computers to our faces.
What is the social media of the future?
Like, what will next generations be using?
My hope is that the social network
of the future is right here in person.
So I think one of the biggest
challenges we've face today is
we've gotten so good at
connecting with people
who are really far away,
but we've gotten less good at connecting
with people right in front of us
or across from us at the dinner table.
What surprised you most about
how the tech industry has evolved?
I think for me, one of
the, the things that's,
that's most surprising is the bigness
of the scale of the winners.
Especially, I think technology
was always seen as an enabler
of a revolutionary spirit, right?
And technology was designed
to empower all of us.
I think today to see that
vision almost inverted where,
you know, the scale
of these very large technology
companies almost feels
totally overwhelming
is something I wouldn't
have anticipated with.
I think in an industry
that was really designed
to be revolutionary and
individually empowering
and to create more freedom.
So I, I think that's still possible
and we're seeing another, you know,
technological revolution underway with ai.
Is the bigness a bad thing?
Should it be broken up?
I don't think it's a
bad thing necessarily,
And it makes it difficult
for like the next snap
to be born, right?
For, for us to be a nearly
1 billion monthly active user
platform and be considered
small is pretty wild.
But I think it's those platform shifts
that are gonna create new
opportunity in an industry
that really does have
a very small number of,
of very concentrated players.
Oh, there's a ghost.
Oh, nice. You got it.
Are we gonna be snapping straight from our
brains?
Probably not in my lifetime,
but someday, but maybe one day.
Ooh, that's nice. Cool. You're bald.
I mean that's, it's
good for the bodybuilder
scene.
Yeah, yeah. Wait, do another one.